[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neo.com
I'm your host Dylan Grabowski in this
episode we were joined by Fisher U the
CTO of Babylon Labs The Entity tasked
with over seeing the development of
Babylon a non-custodial staking protocol
that uses the underlying value of
Bitcoin to secure a variety of proof of
stake networks in this conversation we
discussed bitcoin's previous limitations
in providing liquidity to defi protocols
how Babylon is turning Bitcoin into a
first class staking asset how bitcoin's
Security will Empower proof of stake
networks babylon's approach to bridging
into other ecosystems the team's
multiphased approach to launching its
protocol successes and attracting
Bitcoin stakers to The Babylon ecosystem
and so much more just a reminder nothing
said on this podcast Z solicitation to
buy or sell any tokens and that the host
or guest May hold tokens discussed in
any given episode and you can check a
disclaimer out on
www.news.com also if you enjoyed this
episode please please consider showing
your support by rating and reviewing it
on your favorite podcasting platform and
sharing with your friends and family
every rate review like and comment helps
us reach more people and bring you more
of your favorite guests with all that
said I really enjoyed this conversation
with fiser and I hope you enjoy it too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're joined by
Fisher youu the CTO of Babylon Labs a
and Babylon is a non-custodial staking
protocol
that uses the underlying value of
Bitcoin to secure a variety of proof of
stake networks how are you doing today
Fisher hello hello Dyan and hello
everyone nice to meet you thanks for
having me I'm really excited to have
this conversation um and just the caveat
we've had some really cool kind of
interviews with other Bitcoin adjacent
Builders and we also spoke with uh Jacob
Phillips from Lumbard a couple weeks ago
so we have a little bit of a primer for
Bitcoin stake in non-custodial staking
but this is all powered by Babylon so
thank you before we kind of like jump
into the conversation I want to ask kind
of like a highlevel question that might
hone in on why you chose to build
Babylon um as of the time of recording
the total market cap for Bitcoin is is
around $2
trillion and so what were the factors
that kept this pile of liquidity
separate from other defi protocols why
wasn't the crypto World able to
effectively tap into bitcoin's liquidity
for for broader defi yeah so the answer
is is quite simple because Bitcoin has
very limited programmability so that it
cannot be like bridged to other
blockchains without the help of a bridge
of a trusted bridge by trusted bridge I
mean a bridge that it's uh operated by a
team usually in a form of a multi so
basically you have to give your Bitcoin
to this multi so that they can issue you
a synthetic Bitcoin such as wbtc tbtc
whatever BTC or other chance so let you
can have Bitcoin liquidity Babylon users
why are they so uh eager excited to
Leverage The protocol I think it's easy
when we start talking about like w BTC
and the negative perceptions of like bit
Global and Justin Sun's kind of role in
that ecosystem it's easy for people to
say I don't like custodial solutions for
for wrapped Bitcoin but what are kind of
like the pros and what really gets
people excited about what babylon's
offering for non-custodial staking
Solutions sure so so you already mention
that the keyw here is non-custodial
right but on the other side like saking
it's also interesting so maybe I can
spend a few minutes explain what Baron
is doing with Bitcoin taking Okay cool
so think about it if you are a Bitcoin
holder what can you do with your Bitcoin
you can hold it as a digital code or you
can make simple payment with it honestly
no one's using it on that or if you want
to put your Bitcoin to work you can land
it or you can Bridge it right but these
are the in use cases of Bitcoin but
holding and simple payment they are
native use cases of Bitcoin because as
long as Bitcoin train safe you as a user
you are honest it's fine but think about
landing and bridging lending you have to
trust the counterparty that can give you
Bitcoin back breing as we just discussed
you need to give your Bitcoin to uh
basically a Mony okay so those are not
native use cases of Bitcoin so that's
why Bitcoin holders very hesitate to use
all those more fancy use cases okay so
basically before the concept of Bitcoin
sticking came up there is no way for you
to put your Bitcoin to work in a native
trustless way but if you think about all
most of other coins or tokens most of
them are like truth of stake tokens
which can be staked to provide security
to the chain and in return the chain
will have staking reward from its
emission inflation and transaction fee
so that you can put your token to work
and earn sing reward but this is missing
for Bitcoin so at what we do at bin is
to turn Bitcoin into a first class
stable asset so that Bitcoin can be Stak
to protect other decentralized systems
in a proof of stake way and earn scking
reward and most importantly we do this
in a trustless and self- custodial way
making it the third native use case of
Bitcoin which is also the first uh yield
generating use case for Bitcoin where
did the name Babylon come from the name
of Babylon uh came from my co-founder
Professor Bish from Stanford University
so Bon is an ancient city but it was
also the first human Marketplace in
history and at Bon we envision a world
that is secured by Bitcoin so this
basically creates a two-sided security
sharing Marketplace or liquidity Shar
marketplace with one side is Bitcoin and
the consumer side it's the rest of the
crypto world so this is the marketplace
and Bon it's the first Marketplace in
history okay perfect so before we delve
further into to Babylon and all the
really cool use cases that are starting
to expand out of what this protocol
offers I do kind of want to hear a
little bit about your Genesis story so
when was the first time you heard about
Bitcoin and if you're similar to me or
like so many other guests that we've had
on the Pod maybe it didn't click right
away so maybe you heard about Bitcoin
and then you had an aha moment later so
if you could just share what that was
for you I would love to hear it yeah so
my first encounter with Bitcoin was
around 20
uh 15 16 yeah at that time my impression
of Bitcoin yeah it's just money laundry
right yeah so it's it was so wrong but
later I did my PhD on network
information Theory and post talk on
decentralized system security AKA
blockchain security then I realize how
beautiful and elegant simple and elegant
the Bitcoin design is they are
immediately like fall in love with
Bitcoin and continue my research and uh
industry Consulting and business with
Bitcoin I actually got to visit two
years ago USC where you did your postc
and we I was I was doing a University
tour talking with all the different
blockchain clubs at different
universities in the US and USC had a
really strong blockchain Club um you you
were doing your postto there in 2016
2017 is was block yeah was there
blockchain Community back then was there
was there a club on campus where were
students or your fellow postto peers
talking about about these
cryptocurrencies and probably
decentralized networks because this is
what you were studying but what was like
the perspective back then what were
people talking about Bitcoin and
decentralization when you were doing
your post talk yeah by that time uh
people are still focus on the consensus
or with should it be proof of work
should it be proof of stake should it be
practical bft should it be hot stuff bft
people are still thinking about what
should be the right consensus engine
underpinning the blockchain system and
people are still believe that the
blockchain that has the best consensus
engine will win the crypto world but
then we have the def5 summer and people
realize hey it is not so much about
consensus it's about the ecosystem the
things you can actually do with the CH
not just about the consensus do you
think that consensus still plays an
important factor though I got into the
crypto space in 2017 and my first kind
of the the first project I fell in love
with was Neo and it had this bft
consensus and back then you know
everybody was saying the best consensus
is going to completely win out but today
it still does matter I mean bitcoin's
block time is 10 minutes and if we're
using the touted case of we want to be
able to use blockchain networks to buy
our coffee 10 minutes is still a little
too long so yeah Cofe be cold yeah
exactly so does consensus still kind of
play an important aspect or are we
starting to look towards like
applications that buil on top of second
layers and so we don't need like core
consensus I wouldn't say we don't need
core consensus I would say Ally the most
important piece of the blockchain world
because that's the part that makes sure
the decentralized system is secure and
performing it it just that we already
pass the like what we I call the basic
infrastructure phase where we lay down
the most basic things for the blockchain
system think about wireless
communication cellular communication we
still need Wi-Fi stealing our BAS
station right but the technique layer
become mature so so what we focus more
it's on application layer your mobile
phones the bigger screen more apps right
faster apps so I wouldn't say consensus
all the war communication techniques
become irrelevant they are still there
and they are the foundation they are
super important I completely agree I
guess maybe then I would like to reshape
the question and does consensus speed
matter does the 10-minute block times of
Bitcoin really really hamper the ability
for people to want to use that Network
versus like uh cosmos's like 3 second
finality with with its bft yeah so the
performance depends on the value
proposition of theing so for example
like Bitcoin D2 to Gold hold it very
simple payment then 10 minutes fine but
on the other hand say s super high uh
througho super fast confirmation 250
millisecond block so yeah it really
depends on the L value proposition of
okay and so after you did your postto at
USC you kind of spent time in in
Industry uh and you landed at Dolby Labs
focusing on R&D for for decentralized
multimedia Delivery Solutions this was
the bare Market of
20189 when you landed there what was
what was the interest what was Dolby lab
a media conglomerate that from my
experience growing up was mostly focused
on like Sound Solutions what was Dolby
looking at decentralized networks for
what were they curious about what were
you working on then okay sure so
actually my uh story with Dolby went
before that before my postto so in my
final year of PhD in Australia i
invented the decentralized media
delivery or and patented and sold it to
Doby and then I I join USC to do to do
my post talk but only after about 6
month uh I received a call from Doby
asking me hey you can't just sell IP to
us you need to come and build so I drop
out from a postto and join Doby okay
yeah you asked very good question why
Doby why does Doby have anything to do
with decentralized system for the
audience information Doby so I'm talking
about Doby not Adobe the PDF thing not
Adobe Dolby Doby is the surround sound
2.1 Channel I Doby Atmos Doby Cinema
where yeah you can fully imer
experience audio visual experience okay
why does Dolby care about uh delivery so
Dolby has the world's best video audio
capturing uh techniques and algorithms
it also has the world's best playback
device and algorithms but in order to
build a whole ecosystem it's something
missing it is the transportation in the
industry called glass to glass
transportation of the data from the
glass of the camera to the glass of the
TV so data transmission in the between
which missing so Doby would like to
build a whole ecosystem full stack but
it doesn't have no delivery part and it
doesn't want to be hijacked by a third
party delivery solution such as CDN so
they want to have a new solution that is
not centralized because otherwise they
will be hijacked by a certain vendor
that's why they acquired my IP and build
a a decentral IED mediate system system
so if now you so now though be Cloud
it's it's quite popular and if you open
the app and deep down there you can see
a piece of my
oron that's super cool so this is an
instance where decentralization was
solving a solution and we weren't
creating a problem exactly so you spent
a couple years there and then came into
the blockchain space so what was it
about coin or cryptocurrencies that kind
of like lured you from Dolby and decided
that it was time to start working on
solutions for for the Bitcoin ecosystem
yeah so while I was working for Dolby
already started to collaborate with
Professor DAV Shay in AC academic
research and then some industry
Consulting on the blockchain space so
it's not like I I suddenly quit from a
web to company and start start web F so
I I gradually earn my experience and
expertise in the blockchain and the both
academic setting and uh industry setting
for about three years so from 2018 to
2021 three years and then at towards the
end of 2021 it was like the last cycle
def5 samur right so we saw like hundreds
of layer one chains and thousands or
even millions of Diles so the entire
blockchain space it's very fragmented
everyone condu their own thing competing
with each other so then we came we came
up with a vision or a prediction that
this is not sustainable one day there
should be more a more united uh
blockchain world and one way toward this
is the bigger chance should be able to
provide security and liquidity to the
smaller ones and get something back in
return so that the whole blockchain
world and not it's not comprised of just
isolated Islands but yeah all inter
interconnected then we came up with the
concept of security sharing where the
source of security is Bitcoin so David
and I was so fascinated by this idea of
this region so we decided to confound
Bobby and this is how our journey
started so when did you guys
conceptualize Babylon then was it like
2022 21 so and then and now you're
you're just starting to phase out you're
just starting to phase the roll out for
onboarding stakers onto the protocol so
I guess maybe then I don't know how to
eloquently ask this question oh yeah
what are doing for three years yeah how
hard would like how difficult was this
was this problem because it's a very
eloquent solution it sounds so simple
you can elevator pitch it you can say it
in 30 seconds but it took three years to
get here so like what was so difficult
why did why was this such a hard problem
to tackle okay so just to clarify we
didn't came up with specific Bitcoin
staking concept from day one indeed when
we founded B the first protocol we
invented is merge mining where we have a
side chain that recycles the Bitcoin
miners cashion power so that that is
also a proof of work chain and with very
high hash rate very high security that
was our first idea but then we quickly
abandoned it because we realize it it
doesn't work the reason is that the
Bitcoin miners will can attack this side
chain without compromising it's Bitcoin
mainnet mining so there's no there's a
nothing at stake problem there Bitcoin
miners don't care so our first security
sharing protocol AKA merch mining only
lasted like three months and we quickly
abandoned it then we came up with our
second Bitcoin security share protocol
which is called Bitcoin time stamping
that why it's a very good one it solves
an inherent problem of proof of stake
systems that cannot be soed by proof of
stti system themselves no matter how you
how you modify it or upgrade it it is
inherent it's by by birth so proof of
stake system have an issue called long
range attack where the validators and
the Genesis block can all the early
blocks can create a fork of the PS CH
after on bonds for main CH so this is
called long range attack yeah that
sounds very technical but in short P
chain has an inherent problem called Low
Range attack or history region attack it
cannot be solved by PS system themselves
and because of this weakness P systems
usually have a very long stake un
bonding time so when you once you stake
if you want Unbound get your token back
usually takes weeks or even month yeah
because
history revision problem because the
change a fre that you will re revise the
history so they hold you token for a
very long time so our second protocol
called Bitcoin time stamping solved this
problem by checkpointing P data back to
bitcoin Bitcoin doesn't have this
problem like the deeper the data is the
more secure because you have a long
chain build on top of it right so yeah
Bitcoin time stamping it's a very good
solution very good but it was too good
in the sense that it it's almost like a
free service P change just we have we
came up with a super cool uh contraction
algorithm that can put uh that can uh
checkpoint P data to Bitcoin in less
than 80 bytes no matter in less than 150
bytes no matter how big the block is how
many chains are used in the S then
there's no economic value there super
cheap to use it's kind of easy to use as
well this solution this protocol had
also has its own problem because it's a
Time stamping protocol on bpc it is kind
of slow M you need to wait at least 10
minutes to get something WR on bitcoin
and you need to wait for hours to have
it be confirmed on BTC it's too slow so
we ask ourselves actually in early 2023
that can we somehow extract the security
of
Bitcoin that is fast enough not at a
space of 10 minutes can we is is
something in order of seconds or even
millisecond we can extract from Bitcoin
by then we uh came up the concept of
Bitcoin
STI where it's not the Bitcoin chain
proof of work power that provide
security it's the Bitcoin the
asset that acts as a proof of stake
asset to provide security but we all
know that proof of stake is super fast
so this is fast and because Bitcoin
asset is activated and has in like
unimaginable unbelievable economic
impact so yeah then Bitcoin staking
become the like one of the hottest
protocol in the space and it took us
about half an hour I'm not sorry half an
year to build to do the research and
build the POC and prove that it works so
in July 2023 after nearly 6 months of
research we publish our light paper and
tell the world Hey bco sing it's
possible yeah I think that's the f I
heard a podcast last summer um almost
immediately after you guys released the
light paper and so babylon's kind of
been like on my radar for a long time
and it's clearly seeing some Market
success right now with the amount of of
staking that's going on but I do want to
just kind of maybe clarifier or just
kind of dig in a little further what
what are the the POS networks that are
relying on Babylon like our ethereum
clients leveraging this service are
Cosmos side chains leveraging this
service like I understand as a Staker I
can stake my Bitcoin through Babylon and
and earn points but like what about the
the the product or the project on a
separate chain who are some you're like
chain users or your chain clients great
question so in theory Bitcoin staking
adds a proof of Stak layer
Security on top of any decentralized
system it could be ethereum itself
Solana s Cosmos Hub or any ethereum row
up whatever row up side chains
subnets okay in theory it it adds a
layer of p security on top of anything
however in in reality we only have
limited bandwidth so we have to pick
some uh primary targets for the adoption
our current currently we have three
categories of adoption one it's Cal
change like uh Cosmos Hub osmosis and
other Cosmos and second is ethereum row
up op like row up or Arbitron like row
up and third it's Bitcoin Ro so the are
the three types of digitalized systems
that we are currently focusing so you
said Bitcoin rollups are you what are
some examples right now like we just I
just spoke with Bob yesterday um so is
build on bitcoin who are some other kind
of because like the the conversation we
were having with Bob is that bit VM is
still slowly rolling out we're not going
to see a lot of bit VM projects until on
Main net maybe like Q4 next year 2025 Q4
2025 so like like who are some other
examples of like Bitcoin rollups that
you're speaking with now yeah Bitcoin
rups like bulb CRA chakra uh new beat
big layer and St layer yeah there are
quite a few uh good Bitcoin Ro or
Bitcoin s train project very cool that's
I mean Cosmos ethereum rollups and
Bitcoin rollups are like the three most
interoperable ecosystems right now um so
so once you deploy to like IBC enabled
ecosystems or evm enabled ecosystems or
bit VM enabled
ecosystems how easy is it then to just
be able to copy and paste to like a
different chain in each of those
ecosystems is it is it really simple at
that point Cosmos ecosystem it is it can
be quite standard so once we uh devel
the integration solution yes it become a
boil plate e so for op yes standardizes
and orbitron standard light no
but for Bitcoin robs there are so many
different C Stacks so there would be we
have to do more customization for coros
will Babylon be kind of like helping to
create the composability tech stack for
for bit VM then as you start to like
create this code that can interact with
all the different bit VM chains are you
guys kind of like at the ground level of
creating like an SDK or something for
others to to build on top of after
you've already created the work so we
canot call contributors to BBN but we
we're monitoring it and try to also make
some contribution to it or the protocols
buil on top of BBM but we we do know BBM
very well actually it's BBM too yes
correct perfect so when we're looking at
I'm looking at the Babylon dashboard
right now um confirm confirm tvl of 336
billion in US dollars today with the
current price of Bitcoin the amount of
staked Bitcoin just keeps going up um so
you're on cap 3 right now can you
explain a little bit about the the cap
process how you guys have slowly kind of
like increased the amount of time that
you can have stakers and why you're
taking this sort of like phased approach
to to finding Bitcoin sers yeah sure
sure so in for the context of the
audience okay Bitcoin sticking is brand
new not no one has done that before okay
so we are talking about
bootstrapping a$2 trillion Market um
marketplace where we have the supplier
Bitcoin holders with their Bitcoin and
we have consumer consumer are the P
chain rups that will consume Bitcoin
State and Bob loan will be acting as the
marketplace in the middle okay so we are
Bo trapping a very new market then we
look left and we look right think about
which side is Boost track first we pick
the supply side because if we boost
track the demand side and people come to
the supermarket and say hey there's
nothing nothing in the Shelf they that
doesn't work so we have to first boost
check the supply side so we decided to
launch our mandet in phases and be
precise in three phases phase one we
boost chapler Supply site by inviting
Bitcoin holders to stick their Bitcoin
on Bitcoin chain in the second phase we
will boost trrap the marketplace Itself
by launching the B chain which we take
the Bitcoin state in Phase One and
receive Bitcoin security this is phase
two then in phase three we boost trap
the consumer side the demand side by
enable Bitcoin multi staking so that one
Bitcoin can be stti and secure multiple
decentralized systems at the same time
so that the consumer side can Beed so
phase one two and three to boostrap the
three pieces all for market and we are
currently at phase one can you just kind
of maybe spell out super simply for me
who the consumer will be because I
understand providing Supply like we want
the Bitcoin asset to be providing
security to to this ecosystem and I
understand that the Babylon chain will
launch and this will enable the
marketplace but then who are the
consumers going to be what what is this
Market going to be this is a security
sharing marketplace where the consumers
will be the cross motor chains is robs
and Bitcoin rocks that I mentioned
earlier a staked Bitcoin needs 10 block
confirmations for its status to become
active how did your team kind of settle
on on the 10 Bitcoin block confirmation
limit yeah sure so uh usually Bitcoin
confirmation depth is chosen at six we
just ear on the side of caution and set
it to 10 so I think like a lot of people
who are hearing this they're going to
hear oh great I can I can stake my
Bitcoin and I'm going to earn yield and
maybe people would think that the yield
they earn is going to be in Bitcoin but
I don't think we're quite there yet so
Babylon is actually doing a rewards
point system so can you just share a
little bit about why the team is doing a
rewards point system why we can't
distribute Bitcoin as as yield and kind
of maybe what what the vision moving
forward it is for for Bitcoin or for for
the yields and rewards first to clarify
it is not reward point it's just point
there's no reward and by no means points
can be converted to reward there there's
no monetary value to the points okay now
so my answer so you actually asked two
questions one is why the reward is not
Bitcoin and what second why there's a
point system okay so I would like to
answer the why there's point system
first currently we're in phase one
there's no chain to be secured by
Bitcoin so there's no reward but Bitcoin
holders they already lock their Bitcoin
on bitcoin chain so we we build a point
system to
mimic the reward process by assume Ina
in case there pretending that there is
chain that is secured by Bitcoin so
think about how PS reward works whenever
a block is uh is created new coins are
minted and the new coins are uh the
newly mitted coins are proportionately
distributed to all the stakers so what
we do here it's a mimic of this system
using Point rather than real P token
reward where by each Bitcoin block
currently we uh the protocol not we the
protocol uh will generate 10,000 points
and all these 10,000 points will be
distributed proportionally to the
Bitcoin stickers but it's a mimic of
proper reward system so then there's a
future where like Babylon is securing
like optimism is securing an app chain
on Cosmos is securing whatever and the
Bitcoin Staker will actually earn the
yields from those chains yeah and the
reward will be nominated by the chains
in rups that they secure it's not in
Bitcoin because from from their
perspective
they are hiring a bodyguard a security
team so that they pay or bodyguard using
their own currency that brings up kind
of an interesting question then like is
Babylon going to have to create a wallet
in order to be able to show the Staker
all the different tokens that they're
earning from the yields because we're
talking Cosmos chains we're talking evm
we're talking bit VM chains there's
going to be so many different token
rewards that are gener generated on so
many different networks like have you
guys created more problems for yourself
and have to create a new app and a new
wallet in order to be able to to track
all of this okay yeah great question so
we don't have to create new wallet
because it is possible to for all the
different token rewards to be like
bridged to bobblin so that you can have
just one place to manage all your
rewards okay because underneath the PR
key or the signature algorithm there
infinite number of such algorithms so
it's not uh too difficult to manage
those those things and through uh
techniques such as uh account
obstruction you will make the use
experience even simpler and so account
abstraction is kind of farther along in
land evm land I'm not quite sure like
where a is in in like Cosmos land and in
bid VM I mean everything's being built
from scratch so it can be added easily
so like what is it what's it like
dealing with the various different
progressions of account abstraction on
different chains um I guess because you
guys are you're building in so many
different levels of maturity of
ecosystems that sometimes you I just get
the sense that maybe Babylon is like
uncovering what is and what isn't
working in specific ecosystems and maybe
you're helping teams to kind of hone in
on what they need to so what's that like
for things like account abstraction like
are you finding headaches at different
at different turns for different
networks or yeah yeah yeah so so we did
do some research on account obstruction
it is not our high priority at the
moment but as some point you will become
important for us for us experience so
account extraction is much more mature
on the east side than any other
ecosystem on the other hand the account
abstraction on the Bitcoin side is very
immature because you don't really have
the
proper uh trustless account exraction so
most of the account abstractions uh
Solutions on the Bitcoin side is
basically again kind of multis or a
bridge they will help you to move your
funds around by holding Yeah by actually
controlling your asset again because of
the limited programmability of people
yeah and so I think something that's
really interesting about Babylon is
you're using this term for for not
necessarily stakers but maybe like
staking aggregators like Lumbard or like
solve protocol you're calling them
finality providers so where did what's
the name finality provider where what
does it like represent is it something
more than just like like a staking
entity lar so they are liquid staking
projects yeah they collect Bitcoins from
their uses and stick to the bin protocol
and issue synthtic like liquid Bitcoins
to their uses on ethereum or or s or
other smart TRS okay but it just happen
that they want to have their own finity
provider they don't want to uh stick
their Bitcoin and dedicate to someone so
they also create a finan provider oh
soorry so I should first explain what is
finan provider as I mentioned a bit
earlier what that Bitcoin sticking
provide it's a proof of stti lay
Security on top of anything proof of
security proof of State security is
about finality a block is proposed by
someone and is voted yes by two3 of the
the valid validators so then the block
is finalized so finan provider is a set
of validators that is backed by Bitcoin
stum to distinguish it Bitcoin staking
security layer with the base layer
consensus we don't call the Bitcoin
validators because the base layer
already have validators so for the
Bitcoin staking uh PS layer we call
those validators finality providers but
fin providers from a functional
perspective you can think of it as
validators who can can receive
dedications yeah so lomard and S they
don't want to dedicate their Bitcoin to
another finan provider so they create
their own finan provider and dedicate to
themselves perfect thank you for
explaining that so so how do you go
about finding these how do you go about
creating these relationships with
finality providers are you going out and
going to conferences and doing the
circuits and trying to find folks like
Lumbard are they coming to you what are
these relation ship look like how did
they start last year I think in November
I attended a conference called staking
Summit which is the the biggest
conference for all the validators I give
a talk about Bitcoin staking because at
that time everyone was talking about is
staking that's it they I Dro a bomb to
the r Community say Hey Now Bitcoin
stickable because for most of the
professional validators they are not
retailer facing actually they have their
own
institutional uh like big customers
behind it okay so and with very high
chance their customers clients already
have a lot of Bitcoin sitting there
doing nothing so once they heard about
Bitcoin taking and once their clients
heard about Bitcoin taking they got very
excited so it is like a lot of interest
mutually then yeah we just come along
very quickly I don't have to do a lot of
convincing and yeah the collaboration
was super so I mean like it's it's clear
that there's a market for this we since
we've been in recording this interview
it's it's been 42 minutes and there's
already another 100 Bitcoin that have
been confirmed in tvl and Babylon so
okay like the market is hungry so like
who are these who are these people are
they individual stakers are they in
institutions like like the folks you
just mentioned is it a combination of of
everything like who are you finding are
the biggest users of Babylon right now
according to the data we have seen so
far the majority of Bitcoins come from
liquid sticking protocols RSD protocols
so low bar is liquid sticking protocol
Soul badrock Lorenzo they all liquid sta
protocols they Source their
institutional and retailer
Bitcoin and then stti to us but in our
in this cap because it's dur is long
enough it give the enough time for in
institutional sters to stti by
themselves but previously our camp was
so short in like one hour one hour and a
half it doesn't give institutions enough
time because they have a longer internal
process before they do anything right
but but this time we see more direct
staking from institutions and also a lot
more direct staking from retailer uset
as well but you can I think the number
of stakers pass 50k right you can
dashboard yes
66.8 66 okay okay so my dream for this
cat is to reach 100K sers 100K can you
share really quickly a little bit about
the differences between the stakers and
the delegations because there's 66,000
stakers and 74,000 delegations so what's
the what's the difference between the
two each Staker is like unique Bitcoin
holder each delegation is the of staking
transactions you do okay so that's why
the number of stations is greater than
the stakers because a Staker can do
multiple stakings in terms and why do we
know that they are both retailer stakers
and institutional stakers it's because
if you look at the staking amount our
the limit we set the minimum liit limit
is 0.005 you can see the maximum we set
in the last C is 500 PC guess what we
have stickers on the both s side of the
spectrum and everything in between so
there are there were people who St 500
BTC in one transac like 505 million do
in one transaction that's incredible
because this is such cuttingedge
technology and when we're talking about
institutions they're viewing Bitcoin as
an asset that they buy and hold and they
don't want to lend they don't want to
trade they don't want to speculate this
is digital property that they want to
acquire and hold yeah so maybe if you
could speculate like why are these big
large scale institutions taking the leap
why are they saying we will indeed stake
$50 million worth of bitcoin 500 Bitcoin
are you guys starting to see a shift in
the perspective of these large scale
institutions that hold Bitcoin are they
starting to see that there's a way that
they can earn yield is this something
they've wanted for a long time or is
this something that they're just
starting to understand they can do I
think it's a combination of everything
you just just said plus that we take a
very cautious approach in phase one so
we're currently in cap three so 1.3
phase one cap three
1.3 we had our 1.1 our first camp we
only accepted 1,000 Bitcoins and that
cap went like
instantly like filled and then we do
security audits we do uh security
campaigns bu bounties for over a month
before we open the second camp and after
the second cap yeah second cap only last
one and a half hours we accumulate more
than2 billion dollar worth of bitcoin
and then only after one month and half
again we open cap so we do things in a
very cautious and progressively which
the institutes uh appreciate was cap 2
held in October this year yes October
8th okay because you can see on the
dashboard just like a Skyrocket in lock
CDL so that was one of my questions like
what was that where did that come from
but that was cap 2 so how many more caps
do you guys have envisioned for for
Babylon is Cap 3 the end or are there
more I cannot guarantee you but um
highly likely cap three will be the last
and then what's next then we will launch
phase two to have the Bob launched and
one more comment on the institution of
doct so the numbers you see right now is
not the full potential of Bitcoin
speaking because there are even bigger
institutes that take even longer time to
review the technology to test technology
do
integration yeah so very very long time
so the numbers you see are far from the
poent the limit the true limit of
Bitcoin staking so you will see the
Abduction of Bitcoin taking steadily uh
increase over the next few years so this
is an interesting topic that I wanted to
to touch upon a little bit because we
just saw here in the US the Bitcoin ETFs
launch earlier this year and a lot of
these traditional financial institutions
that have an ETF like Black Rock
Fidelity vanck uh um you name it they
all ended up custody their Bitcoin with
coinbase a trusted centralized custodial
solution provider are you starting to
have and and you don't have to mention
any names I'm sure that none of these
guys want their names mentioned but are
you starting to have conversations with
these types of entities who are getting
curious about non-custodial staking
Solutions non-custodial Solutions are
these conversations showing you they
grasp what the differences between a
custodial and a non-custodial solution
is it something that they even want
right now so first off all we don't deal
with us Bitcoins or us us customers yeah
so sadly I know this yeah no no us no us
but in terms of seeing the conflict
concept between noncustodial or self
custodial solution and custody they are
they sound like conflicting with each
other but it is actually not the case so
think about this when we when people
criticize about Bitcoin or any or the
Bitcoin fire or any fire being
centralized it is not just about the
asset it's not at the users the end
users hand it's there are many parties
in the protocol it's not just the user
and the chain if this is the case yes no
no problem yes the user at the long the
chain it's safe the user it's honest
everything's fine but in most of the
protocols there are many parties
involved in it in the custody that
helped the user to manage their asset
it's just one of the potential
counterparties the users have to worry
and I would say the custody custody is
the least
risky uh counterparty that the end user
needs to worry about to me the custody
themselves I view that
at the extension of the user because
they help the non-technical users to
manage their asset with their approval
and there is usually very strong legal B
binding between it when we talk about uh
self custodial or non-custodial
Solutions we at we are talking more
about removing the risk of other
intermed intermediator of the entire
protocol right for example a breach in
the middle or a smart con contract uh
controlled by a MC so those are the CES
or uh intermediaries that may create
conflict of interest or may steal your
coins away the custody custody is not
the biggest concern MH so when we talk
about a non-custodial or self custodial
trust this Bitcoin staing then the risk
we would like to eliminate is the r type
of counterparty all Oracle all altcoin
collector kind of risk associated with
Bitcoin stti but if you are non
technical you not a technical people you
rely on a custody to help you do your
operation that's totally fine and the
conversations you're having are are like
large scale entities starting to grasp
this are they starting to understand the
difference between just custody their
Bitcoin versus creating a new way to
earn yield on on these assets are they
grocking that or is it still kind of
like not there yet I think most of them
already get it by now yeah so understand
that apart from their very much trusted
custody providers there's no other CP
parties which is great so you mentioned
um a moment ago that you you don't touch
us entities at all as a US citizen I am
very well aware that I cannot stake on
Babylon maybe why why is that I I
understand that the SEC was very
negative towards companies building in
the US so maybe this is a two-pronged
question then um what made it difficult
for Babylon to be able to service
us-based users and entities and then
second have the recent Pro crypto
candidates that have been elected to
office is that changing babylon's
Outlook I don't think I'm the best one
to comment on this problem but I would
like to say that we don't just block us
we also block UK we block Canada we also
block all the sanctioned country and
regions by the United Nation so there
are lot of countries and regions uh we
exclude from Bitcoin sing so where are
most of your users then APAC region yeah
APAC region and European some allly
Europeans cool so kind of uh zooming out
and wrapping up I want to ask kind of
like a a larger scale existential
question when Bitcoin was created by the
cyppher punks it was supposed to be this
non-state money that can't be co-opted
or shut down by a nation state and now
we see a lot of crypto Twitter um
championing Black Rock and Fidelity and
these large scale institutions and banks
for for buying Bitcoin we see crypto
Twitter championing China and Russia and
the US adding Bitcoin to their strategic
Reserve what what does this say for for
Bitcoin you know like micro strategy and
all the ETF issuers they own a large
percentage of the Bitcoin Supply now are
we at like a point in bitcoin's life
where we have to be concerned about the
centralized institutions that Bitcoin
was created to fight against or was this
always uh kind of like a part of the
Playbook and maybe this isn't as
existential as I might think it is okay
yeah great question so we do see a trend
of centralization of the Bitcoin asset
but
remember Bitcoin is the asset of the
Bitcoin
chain the Bitcoin chain is maintained by
the minus as long as the miners are not
controlled by a country or a company the
Bitcoin train it's decentralized it it
is censorship resistant so train is
decentralized that's the most important
thing cool I love that answer synced
simple something to keep an eye on for
anybody who gets worried about this so
like looking forward be before we we
talk about next steps for Babylon um
what are some other types of Bitcoin
related projects that you and your team
are are keeping an eye on in the Bitcoin
ecosystem yeah sure uh for sure we keep
an eye on bitcoin via and related
projects yeah and also the recent
progress in terms of adding new OP code
to BTC like opcat yeah check CVT which
will yet make Bitcoin much more
programmable and build much more
interesting use cases for Bitcoin so
these are the main like high level
directions we keeping R after launching
Babylon this year what is one uh thing
that has played out like you thought it
would and what's one thing about the
launch of Babylon that has surprised you
it was during cap one the first cap
where we take 1,000 Bitcoins the
transaction fee during the very short
per like 1 hour period where we open the
sticking window going up like
300X bcoin Al transaction fee we didn't
expect that the miners of low that six
block earned like I don't know 50 BTC or
or more yeah just just within in
transaction feed on top of the mining
thing because we launch our C so it is a
big surprise it made a lot of it dra a
lot of attention but looking back you
feel the transaction was too high so we
in our later uh later caps we changed it
from amount based cap to duration based
uh cap so that people do not have to
compete to get that's the biggest
surprise uh we played out very well I
think it's our the long our again I
think the launch our main net they went
very smooth no hiccups yeah so very
happy with that so phase one is about to
complete with with cap three maybe not
putting words in your mouth uh phase two
launches soon so so what else is on the
road map for for Babylon in 2025 so
after uh phase two you will be phase
three where we boost tra the demand side
so that customer chance eops and
Bitcoins can start using Bitcoin STI
okay and then on top of that we will
work closely with our liquid staking uh
protocols to bring not only Bitcoin
security by Bitcoin liquidity to the to
the whole ecosystem if you zoom out a
further you can see that BTC staking
it's actually the
first Native use case for Bitcoin on top
of the making it idle and all SLE
payment so next year we will see it's
actually the Genesis EU of two Bitcoin
def5 previously Bitcoin def5 rely on
third parties multi6 but 2025 you will
be the Genesis year of two Bitcoin def5
and if you zoom up even even zoom out
even more you can see that what we are
doing is to bring something to unite
Bitcoin world with the rest of the
crypto world and then because Bitcoin
coin is the most accepted crypto in the
So-Cal mainstream world so we have the
chance to unite the mainstream world
with the c entire crypto world through
Bitcoin through Bitcoin staking so that
we have the entire world United starting
from 2021 I love it it's like a a layer
zero social consensus for for bridging
Bitcoin into other blockchain ecos
systems it's a fantastic image and
vision so for anyone who listened to
this uh who is it that you're interested
in speaking with and what's the best way
they can reach out to you yeah sure so
you can follow our uh Twitter Popin Labs
iio yeah you can also jooin our
community in in Discord yeah I I will be
very active there awesome Fisher uh I
was very much looking forward to this
conversation so I appreciate you taking
the time out of your day to chat with us
this was a fantastic disc discussion uh
love Babylon are working on so thank you
so much thank you thank you so much
thank you so much everyone thank you so
much for tuning in to the smart economy
podcast to stay in the loop with all of
our latest episodes and insights head
over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and don't
forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel for all of our video content if
you enjoyed today's discussion please
consider showing your support by like in
commenting and reviewing this episode on
your favorite podcasting platform your
feedback helps us reach more listeners
and bring even better content your way
we'd also love to hear from you so
please drop a comment on Spotify or
YouTube to share what topics you'd like
us to cover or who you'd like us to have
as our next guest and if you know
someone who would make a great guest
please reach out we're always looking
for fresh voices or
perspectives and for our neot token hold
ERS please consider voting for Neo new
today as your Council representative
we've proudly been serving the Neo
ecosystem since
2017 and we'll continue to do so by
putting portions of our Council rewards
directly back in ecosystem growth
initiatives with all that said thank you
so much for taking the time to listen to
this episode of the smart economy
podcast and we look forward to catching
you next time
[Applause]